Section 4.2 (Focus Discussion of Centralization) copyedits (#35)
rfc-editor/draft-nottingham-avoiding-internet-centralization: draft-nottingham-avoiding-internet-centralization.md

## Focus Discussion of Centralization {#target}

> Centralization and decentralization are increasingly being raised in technical standards discussions. Any claim needs to be critically evaluated: as discussed in {{centralization}}, not all centralization is automatically harmful, and per {{decentralization}}, decentralization techniques do not automatically address all centralization harms -- and they may bring their own risks.

Reviewer: "harm" is typical in the literature and debate about these matters. What motivates this change?

Reviewer 2: See the reasoning for this change in #22. We will revert this change back to use "centralization harms".

However, standards participants rarely have the expertise or information available to completely evaluate those claims, because the analysis involves not only technical factors, but also economic, social, commercial, and legal aspects. For example, economies of scale can cause concentration due to the associated efficiencies {{SCALE}}, and so determining whether that concentration is appropriate requires a detailed economic analysis that is not in scope for a technical standards body. Furthermore, claims of centralization may have other motivations; in particular, they can be proxies for power struggles between actors with competing interests, and a claim of centralization might be used to deny market participants and (perhaps more importantly) users the benefits of standardization.

Therefore, approaches like requiring a "Centralization Considerations" section in documents, gatekeeping publication on a centralization review, or committing significant resources to searching for centralization in protocols are unlikely to improve the Internet.

> Similarly, refusing to standardize a protocol because it does not actively prevent all forms of centralization ignores the very limited power that standards efforts have to do so. Almost all existing Internet protocols -- including IP, TCP, HTTP, and DNS -- fail to prevent centralized applications from using them. While the imprimatur of an Internet standard is not without value, merely withholding it cannot prevent centralization.

Reviewer: I was using it in the RFC2026 sense. Perhaps:

```suggestion
Similarly, refusing to standardize a protocol because it does not actively prevent all forms of centralization ignores the very limited power that standards efforts have to do so. Almost all existing Internet protocols -- including IP, TCP, HTTP, and DNS -- fail to prevent centralized applications from using them. While the imprimatur of the standards track {{?RFC2026}} is not without value, merely withholding it cannot prevent centralization.
```
